---
# MUST HAVE BEG
layout: post
disqus_identifier: 20160816-vim-notes # DO NOT CHANGE THE VALUE ONCE SET
title: Eclipse中的Force Return
# MUST HAVE END

is_short: true      # <!--more-->
subtitle:
tags: 
- vim
date: 2016-08-16 20:36:00
image: 
image_desc: 
---




https://www.javacodegeeks.com/2012/04/antlr-tutorial-hello-word.html
不错的文档

Real Word Examples
ANTLR seems to be popular in open source word. Among others, it is used by Apache Camel, Apache Lucene, Apache Hadoop, Groovy and Hibernate. They all needed parser for a custom language. For example, Hibernate uses ANTLR to parse its query language HQL.

To see where ANTLR could be useful and how it could save time, try to estimate following requirements:
Add formula calculator into an accounting system. It will calculate values of formulas such as (10 + 80)*sales_tax.
Add extended search field into a recipe search engine. It will search for receipts matching expressions such as (chicken and orange) or (no meat and carrot).
Our safe estimate is a day and half including documentation, tests, and integration into the project. ANTLR is worth looking at if you are facing similar requirements and made significantly higher estimate.


Overview
ANTLR is code generator. It takes so called grammar file as input and generates two classes: lexer and parser.

Lexer runs first and splits input into pieces called tokens. Each token represents more or less meaningful piece of input. The stream of tokes is passed to parser which do all necessary work. It is the parser who builds abstract syntax tree, interprets the code or translate it into some other form.

Most importantly, grammar file describes how to split input into tokens and how to build tree from tokens. In other words, grammar file contains lexer rules and parser rules.


ANTLR project produced stand alone IDE, Eclipse plugin and Idea plugin. 
Stand alone ide is called ANTLRWorks.

Eclipse Plugin
ANTLR editor. The editor has three tabs: Grammar,Interpreter,Railroad View 

还讲了相关的maven plugin





http://meri-stuff.blogspot.hk/2011/09/antlr-tutorial-expression-language.html

ANTLR tool is useful any time you need to create compiler, interpreter or parser of your own language.
It takes so called grammar file as an input and generates two classes: lexer and parser. 


The stream of tokes is passed to parser which does all necessary work. It is the parser who builds abstract syntax tree, interprets the code or translate it into some other form.

Grammar file contains everything ANTLR needs to generate correct lexer and parser. 

Lexer - Basics
Lexer takes characters stream as an input and splits it into stream of tokens.
Lexer rules define tokens, each rule represents one token. Lexer rule always starts with a token name.
Token name must start with an uppercase letter and is followed by regular expression

How Lexer Works
First, lexer selects the rule to be used. Second, lexer matches the selected rule with the input and outputs corresponding token. The beginning of the character stream is chopped off and lexer continues with a first step on the rest of the input.

Lexer looks for the first longest matching rule.
The matching is greedy - selected token uses as many characters as possible.
Lexer never changes its previous decision.



Parser - Basics
While lexer splits input into tokens, parser translates token stream into some other structure. 

Abstract Syntax Tree
Each parser rule corresponds to small part of final abstract syntax tree. By default, each token represents one node and all nodes are connected to the root node.


How Parser Works
Unless configured otherwise, parser rules are expected to be unambiguous. No matter what input, parser should not be forced to make decisions or backtrack. There must be only one way how to match the input to the rule.


Independence of Lexer and Parser
It it important to remember, that lexer and parser run independently.


Start Rule
Any grammar needs so-called start rule. Start rule is a rule that is not referenced by another rule. 

Ambiguity
Matching between token stream and parser rule should be unambiguous. If some token stream matches the rule, there should be only one way how to match them. 


Left-Recursion
You have to avoid something called left-recursion. Left recursion happens when the rule references itself on the leftmost part.





https://theantlrguy.atlassian.net/wiki/display/ANTLR3/Five+minute+introduction+to+ANTLR+3
ANTLR - ANother Tool for Language Recognition

can use ANTLR to implement Domain-Specific Languages, to generate parts of language compilers and translators, or even to help them build tools that parse complex XML.


ANTLR reads a language description file called a grammar and generates a number of source code files and other auxiliary files.
Most uses of ANTLR generates at least one (and quite often both) of these tools:
A Lexer: 
A Parser: 

ANTLR's Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) processing is especially powerful. If you also specify a tree grammar, ANTLR will generate a Tree Parser for you that can contain custom actions or StringTemplate output statements. 


ANTLR toolkit advances the state of the art with its new LL parsing engine. 

ANTLR 3 already supports Java, C#, Objective C, C, Python and Ruby as target languages.





http://www.antlr.org



https://github.com/antlr/antlr4/blob/master/doc/getting-started.md
ANTLR is really two things: a tool that translates your grammar to a parser/lexer in Java (or other target language) and the runtime needed by the generated parsers/lexers.



https://github.com/antlr/antlr4/blob/master/doc/faq/general.md

As I was rewriting ANTLR, I wanted to experiment with a new variation of the LL(*) parsing algorithm. As luck would have it, I came up with a cool new version called adaptive LL(*) that pushes all of the grammar analysis effort to runtime.

The parser warms up like Java does with its JIT on-the-fly compiler; the code gets faster and faster the longer it runs. The benefit is that the adaptive algorithm is much stronger than the static LL(*) grammar analysis algorithm in v3. 




http://www.antlr.org/about.html

Twitter search uses ANTLR for query parsing, with over 2 billion queries a day.
The languages for Hive and Pig, the data warehouse and analysis systems for Hadoop, both use ANTLR.
Oracle uses ANTLR within SQL Developer IDE and their migration tools.
The HQL language in the Hibernate object-relational mapping framework is built with ANTLR. 

you can build all sorts of useful tools like configuration file readers, legacy code converters, wiki markup renderers, and JSON parsers.

From a formal language description called a grammar, ANTLR generates a parser for that language that can automatically build parse trees, which are data structures representing how a grammar matches the input. ANTLR also automatically generates tree walkers that you can use to visit the nodes of those trees to execute application-specific code.

ANTLR has contributed to the theory and practice of parsing including:
linear approximate lookahead
semantic and syntactic predicates
ANTLRWorks
tree parsing
LL(*)
Adaptive LL(*) in ANTLR v4 (paper coming soon)




https://github.com/antlr/antlr4/blob/master/doc/index.md


















http://www.alexecollins.com/antlr4-and-maven-tutorial/
示例代码



http://www.theendian.com/blog/antlr-4-lexer-parser-and-listener-with-example-grammar/
示例代码








http://www.antlr.org/api/maven-plugin/latest/index.html




https://media.pragprog.com/titles/tpantlr2/picture.pdf
非常好




